Welcome to Advanced GraphQL V2
here with Frontend Masters.
I'm Scott Moss,
I'm gonna be your instructor today.
For me, GraphQL is a technology
that I use every single day.
We've used it on the front end,
we use it on the back end,
I'm using it for years now.
I've been helping and
watching it advance and
it's becoming an integral part
of the technology that I love.
It's one of my favorite
pieces of technology.
And I'm really excited about teaching
this course because it's basically based
on a lot of this stuff that I learned
along the way over the few years
of using GraphQL.
The things I learned the hard way and
I'm just going to show you how I get past
them and different strategies like that.
So if you're interested in becoming
really savvy with GraphQL API,
this is definitely the course.
If you don't have any
experience with GraphQL APIs,
we're still gonna go over some things
that could help you get caught up.
But having some experience of what
GraphQL is will definitely be helpful for
this course.
Awesome, so first thing is, get everyone
the links to the slides and repos.
So the repo that we're gonna
be using today is gonna be on
GitHub Frontend Masters,
Advanced GraphQL V2.
So make sure you clone that repo,
pull it down in the read me,
there's a link to some slides
that I'm gonna be using for
the course today, follow along with
yourself or you can just watch me.
And then you'll also be
doing work in this repo.
There are no dependencies in this repo,
other than just having node
version greater than equal to six and
obviously having kit and that's about it.
So we'll just get going with that.
All right, so first thing I wanna do is
just do a refresher on GraphQL APIs for
anyone who hasn't used GraphQL API
before or you maybe you have,
but it's been a while, or
you just need a refresher.
We do have an intro to GraphQL API,
so you can watch that course.
But I'm also just gonna go
over a lot of that stuff now.
So if you are,
i.e considering yourself a GraphQL expert,
a lot of this might not
be that important to you.
I'm just gonna go through it.
So what is GraphQL?
A spec that describes a declarative query
language that your clients can use to ask
an API for the exact data they want.
This is achieved by creating
a strongly typed schema for
your API, ultimate flexibility in
how your API can resolve data, and
client queries validated
against your schema.
And that's just a made up
definition that I came up with.
But basically it's describing,
you can think of it as like TypeScript for
your API or in front of your API.
And you can use your clients x for
exactly what you want based
off those type definitions.
And that's basically it.
So some of the main parts, we have type
definitions, which are basically you
describing the different entities that
your API can expose via queries and
mutations.
We have resolvers that are responsible for
fetching the data for
the fields on the type definitions.
We have a schema, which is a combination
of type definitions and resolvers.
We have data sources which work in
tandem with resolvers to fetch data from
third party resources like
rest servers and databases.
Queries are what clients use to read
data from your GraphQL server and
mutations are what clients use to
mutate data on your GraphQL API.
Tools and libraries.
So graphql-js is
Facebook's JavaScript GraphQL
implementation of the graphql spec.
It's a very handy tool.
A lot of people use it.
I think a lot of tooling is
based off of this underneath.
Apollo Server is what we're
gonna be using today,
which I think is the best serve framework
for GraphQL as far as NodeJs goes.
We are gonna be taking
advantage of that one.
Express is a serve framework
that's very well known and
then Node.js eagle system, never heard
of it, it's a really good server,
Apollo Server is based on top of that,
pretty much everything is based
on Express these days as far
as servers go in Node.js.
GraphQL Playground is an application.
So if you've ever used
something like swagger, or
an interactive documentation Explorer,
that's what GraphQL playground is.
And we get that for free.
We're gonna be using that to
explore the API that we're gonna be
building out today.
Because we don't have a client,
this course is purely for API.
So GraphQL Playground will be our client.
That's how we're going to test
out the queries and mutations and
all the different things that
we're going to be doing today.
So, let's build a GraphQL API.
So follow along on this.
We're just gonna spend like 10-15
minutes building a Hello World API.
Just to get a refresher on what
a GraphQL API is, ask questions if there's
some things you're still hazy on if you've
never use it, definitely ask me questions.
This is the time because after this,
we're gonna go straight in and
do some crazy stuff.
So let's do that.